# Space_Titanic
## Overview
  Space Titanic is a dataset and a competition is available on Kaggle.It contains around 13000 rows and have 14 columns(variables) and its **Target** variable is **Transported** I-e end result is finding if the person is transported to other dimension or not.

## Cleaning NULL Values
 1. Checked null values in luxury amenities while cryosleep is true because when cryosleep is true luxury amenities should be zero,there were NULL values so i changeed null values to zero.
 2. As there were NULL values in CryoSleep for when luxury amenties like RoomService,FoodCourt,ShoppingMall,Spa,VRDeck were zero, it indicated that for them CryoSleep would have been true, so i changed CryoSleep from NULL to True when RoomService,FoodCourt,ShoppingMall,Spa,VRDeck were zero.
 3. And i checked CryoSleep NULL values for when luxury amenties like RoomService,FoodCourt,ShoppingMall,Spa,VRDeck had **either of them greater than zero** it indicated that they were **not in CryoSleep** I-e CryoSleep would be False for them so i changed it to **False** from NULL when either of RoomService,FoodCourt,ShoppingMall,Spa,VRDeck **was greater than zero**
 4. Now by checking CryoSleep null values there were 11 remaining null Values and w.r.t luxury amenities like RoomService,FoodCourt,ShoppingMall,Spa,VRDeck **either of them was NULL while others are zero** so by logic i went with **making null luxury amenity zero** as other four luxury amenity were zero and then **made Cryosleep True** as all luxury amenities got zero.
 5. Then i filled the null values of numeric variables, Age,RoomService,Spa,FoodCourt,ShoppingMall,VRDeck by its median.
 6. Then i added spending column which is total of luxury amenities.
 7. Checked **VIP** null values w.r.t HomePlanet **Earth** and spending.
 8. There were total 115 VIP null values for HomePlanet **Earth** and among known VIP values there is **zero** VIP true for **Earth**  and among 115, 49 had 0 spending so i made VIP False for them and among remaining 66, 64 were less than mean of **spending** so i also made VIP False for all null where HomePlanet was Earth.
 9. Checked **VIP** null values w.r.t HomePlanet **Europa** and spending.
 10. There were 42 VIP null values for HomePlanet Europa and among them 5 had spending value less than spending mean(2500) and were closer to 2000 so i made VIP true for all where HomePlanet was **Europa**.
 11. Checked VIP null values w.r.t HomePlanet **Mars** and spending.
 12. There were 43 VIP null values for HomePlanet Mars and among them 24 had spending value **zero** so to make things simple i made VIP null values False for when Spending were zero and remaining true.
 13. There were 3 remaining VIP null as there Homeplanet was null so i amde them False as there spending were less than mean spending.
 14. Then i had NULL values in categorical variables i had few options to deal with that, i choose 2 methods I-e first drop all NULL values and second replace NULL values with new dummy value.
## EDA
  1. By looking at **HomePlanet**, **Europa** have around 65% Transported(True) rate and **Earth** have around 42% Transported(True) rate and **Mars** have around 52% Transported(True) rate and among **Total Transported(True)**, **Earth** have around 45.8%, **Europa** have around 32.8% and **Mars** have around 21.4% and among **Total Not Transported(False)**, **Earth** have around 62.9%, **Europa** have around 17.2% and **Mars** have around 20%.
  2. By looking at **HomePlanet** and **CryoSleep** together,for **when CryoSleep is True**, **Europa** have around 99% Transported(True) rate and **Earth** have around 68% Transported(True) rate and **Mars** have around 90% Transported(True) rate and for **when CryoSleep is False**, **Europa** have around 40% Transported(True) rate and **Earth** have around 35% Transported(True) rate and **Mars** have around 30% Transported(True) rate.
  3. By looking at **HomePlanet** and **Destination** together,for **when Destination is TRAPPIST-1e**, **Europa** have around 64% Transported(True) rate and **Earth** have around 38% Transported(True) rate and **Mars** have around 52% Transported(True) rate and for **when Destination is PSO J318.5-22**, **Europa** have around 78% Transported(True) rate and **Earth** have around 52% Transported(True) rate and **Mars** have around 46% Transported(True) rate and for **when Destination is 55 Cancri e**, **Europa** have around 70% Transported(True) rate and **Earth** have around 52% Transported(True) rate and **Mars** have around 62% Transported(True) rate.
  4. By looking at **HomePlanet** and **VIP** together,for **when VIP is True**, **Europa** have around 55% Transported(True) rate and **Earth** have around 0% Transported(True) rate and **Mars** have around 18% Transported(True) rate and for **when VIP is False**, **Europa** have around 78% Transported(True) rate and **Earth** have around 45% Transported(True) rate and **Mars** have around 55% Transported(True) rate.
  5. By looking at **CryoSleep**, **CryoSleep(True)** have around 80% Transported(True) rate and **CryoSleep(False)** have around 32% Transported(True) rate and among **Total Transported(True)**, **CryoSleep(True)** have around 58.2% and **CryoSleep(False)** have around 41.8% and among **Total Not Transported(False)**,** CryoSleep(True)** have around 13.7% and** CryoSleep(False)** have around 86.3%.
  6. By looking at **CryoSleep** and **Destination** together,for **when Destination is TRAPPIST-1e**, **CryoSleep(True)** have around 78% Transported(True) rate and **CryoSleep(False)** have around 32% Transported(True) rate and for **when HomePlanet is PSO J318.5-22**, **CryoSleep(True)** have around 70% Transported(True) rate and **CryoSleep(False)** have around 34% Transported(True) rate and for **when HomePlanet is 55 Cancri e**, **CryoSleep(True)** have around 94% Transported(True) rate and **CryoSleep(False)** have around 38% Transported(True) rate.
  7. By looking at **CryoSleep** and **VIP** together,for **when VIP is True**, **CryoSleep(True)** have around 99% Transported(True) rate and **CryoSleep(False)** have around 30% Transported(True) rate and for **when VIP is False**, **CryoSleep(True)** have around 80% Transported(True) rate and **CryoSleep(False)** have around 32% Transported(True) rate.
  8. By looking at **Destination**, **TRAPPIST-1e** have around 47% Transported(True) rate and **PSO J318.5-22** have around 50% Transported(True) rate and **55 Cancri e** have around 61% Transported(True) rate and among **Total Transported(True)**, **TRAPPIST-1e** have around 64.9%, **PSO J318.5-22** have around 9.5% and **55 Cancri e** have around 25.6% and among **Total Not Transported(False)**, **TRAPPIST-1e** have around 74.1%, **PSO J318.5-22** have around 9.3% and **55 Cancri e** have around 16.6%.
  9. By looking at **VIP** and **Destination** together,for **when Destination is TRAPPIST-1e**, **VIP(True)** have around 38% Transported(True) rate and **VIP(False)** have around 48% Transported(True) rate and for **when HomePlanet is PSO J318.5-22**, **VIP(True)** have around 44% Transported(True) rate and **VIP(False)** have around 52% Transported(True) rate and for **when HomePlanet is 55 Cancri e**, **VIP(True)** have around 45% Transported(True) rate and **VIP(False)** have around 64% Transported(True) rate.
  10. By looking at **VIP**, **VIP(True)** have around 42% Transported(True) rate and **VIP(False)** have around 51% Transported(True) rate and among **Total Transported(True)**, **VIP(True)** have around 2.6% and **VIP(False)** have around 97.4% and among **Total Not Transported(False)**, **VIP(True)** have around 3.5% and **VIP(False)** have around 96.5%.
  11. So by looking at **HomePlanet** Tranported w.r.t **Age** everything is around same but from Age 0 to 20 for Transported(True) numbers greater than Not Transported(False).
  12. By looking at **CryoSleep** Tranported w.r.t **Age** everything is around same but from Age 0 to 20 for** CryoSleep(True)**, Transported(True) numbers less than Not Transported(False) and for** CryoSleep(False)**, Transported(True) numbers greater than Not Transported(False)
  13. So by looking at **Destination** Tranported w.r.t **Age** everything is around same but from Age 0 to 20 for Transported(True) numbers greater than Not Transported(False)
  14. By looking at **VIP** Tranported w.r.t **Age** everything is around same but from Age 0 to 20 for VIP(False), Transported(True) numbers greater than Not Transported(False)
  15. By looking at **Transported** w.r.t **Age** 0 to 20 have greater number of Transported(True) than Not Transported(False)
  16. And for the **remaining numerical variables** like RoomService,Spa,VRDeck etc couldn't get meaningful information from it.
